---
layout: post
title: 2023 Goals - Looking Ahead
author:
- Dana Hagist
---
In 2023, I will continue most of the habits I developed over the last several years and have added some additional ones.   

**Foundational Goals for 2023**
1. Feel strong and healthy by approaching health holistically
2. Reflect on and share my journey through regular content creation and sharing of photos and writing
3. Build a local community/network and find ways to give back through volunteering or providing other types of support

**Actions/habits I'll do daily to accomplish my goals**
1. Abstain from Alcohol
2. Exercise the Mind by Reading, Researching or Studying
3. Exercise the Body through Exercise
4. Exercise the Spirit through Meditation or Prayer
5. Measure Weight
6. Do a Cold Plunge or Cold Shower
7. Measure Blood Pressure
8. Take a Progress Pic
9. Eat Clean (4 Servings each of Vegetables, Fruits, Whole Grains)
10. Drink Minimum of 64oz of Water
11. Do something Creative (Write, Blog)

**Weekly actions/habits to accomplish my goals**
1. Build Community by Attending a Community Gathering
2. Random Act of Kindness for my Wife
3. Post on Blog
4. Post on Social Media (something helpful/motivational/intentional)

Everybody is different. Not everybody needs a regimen like this to see progress in their lives. For me, I'm a creature of habit and structure. In life, with the many priorities we juggle being an employee, husband, father, family member or friend, it's really easy for progress to take a back seat and become an afterthought. I'm doing whatever is in my power and control to avoid that. The thing I can most control is how I manage my time and energy, and to remain disciplined.

I'm reminded in the book _Discipline is Destiny_ by Ryan Holiday that discpline "is both predictive and deterministic. It makes it more likley you'll successful and ensures, success or failure, that whatever happens, _you are great_. The converse is also true: a lack of discipline puts you in danger; it also colors who and what you are."
